Banff Schema for Grading Liver Allograft Rejection:An International Consensus Document
ANINTERNATIONAL PANEL COMPRISED OF ANTHONY J. D EMETRIS ,K ENNETH P. B ATTS ,A MAR P. D HILLON ,L INDA FERRELL , J
OHN FUNG ,S TEPHEN A. G ELLER ,J OHN HART ,P EKKA HAYRY ,W ALTER J. H OFMANN ,S TEPHAN HUBSCHER ,J OSEF KEMNITZ , G
EORGE KOUKOULIS ,R ANDALL G. L EE,K LAUS J. L EWIN ,J URGEN LUDWIG ,R OD S. M ARKIN ,L IDIJA M. P ETROVIC , M. J
AMES PHILLIPS ,B ERNARD PORTMANN ,J ORGE RAKELA ,P ARMJEET RANDHAWA ,F INN P. R EINHOLT ,M ICHEL REYNEÁS , M
ARIE ROBERT ,H ANS SCHLITT ,K IM SOLEZ ,D ALE SNOVER ,E ERO TASKINEN ,S WAN N. T HUNG ,G .W ELDON TILLERY , R
USSELL H. W IESNER ,D .G .D EREK WIGHT ,J AMES W. W ILLIAMS , and H IROHIKO YAMABE
an internationally acceptable grading system, which has al- A panel of recognized experts in liver transplantation ready been developed for kidney,
3heart,4and lung.5At the pathology, hepatology, and surgery was convened for Third Banff Conference on Allograft Pathology, a group of the purpose of developing a consensus document for the specialists in liver transplantation from North America, Eu- grading of acute liver allograft rejection that is scientifi- rope, and Asia met for this purpose. cally correct, simple, and reproducible and clinicallyuseful. Over a period of 6 months pertinent issues were
DEFINITION OF ACUTE REJECTIONdiscussed via electronic communication media and aconsensus conference was held in Banff, Canada in the In general, organ allograft rejection can be defined as, ``an summer of 1995. Based on previously published data and immunological reaction to the presence of a foreign tissue or the combined experience of the group, the panel agreed organ, which has the potential to result in graft dysfunction on a common nomenclature and a set of histopathologi- and failure.''
2This report is specifically concerned with acute cal criteria for the grading of acute liver allograft rejec- rejection, recently defined by the international consensus tion, and a preferred method of reporting. Adoption of document on terminology for hepatic allograft rejection
2as, this internationally accepted, common grading system ``inflammation of the allograft, elicited by a genetic disparity by scientific journals will minimize the problems associ- between the donor and recipient, primarily affecting interlob- ated with the use of multiple different local systems. ular bile ducts and vascular endothelia, including portal Modifications of this working document to incorporate veins and hepatic venules and occasionally the hepatic artery chronic rejection are expected in the future. (H
EPATOL- and its branches.''2Early rejection, cellular rejection, nonduc-
OGY 1997;25:658-663.) topenic rejection, rejection without duct loss, and reversiblerejection are synonyms for acute rejection that appear in theliterature, but their use is discouraged. The general clinical, The success of hepatic transplantation has resulted in its laboratory, and histopathological abnormalities listed below widespread use for treatment of many patients with endstage were derived from the international consensus document.
2liver disease; it is currently offered by more than 100 centersworldwide. One-year survival rates range from 70% to 90%;
CLINICAL AND LABORATORY FINDINGSand long-term survival of 50% to 60% of patients is not un- Viewed from a biological perspective, any recipient's im- common.
1Therefore, an increasing number of physicians, in- mune system will likely be perturbed after transplantation, cluding pathologists, many of whom have no specific training resulting in immune activation.
2However, viewed from a in transplantation biology, will become involved in the care clinical perspective, because of baseline immunosuppressive of organ allograft recipients. therapy only some recipients manifest clinical symptoms of Despite the good short-term and acceptable long-term sur- allograft recognition with, in the case of liver transplantation, vival after hepatic transplantation, the morbidity associated liver biochemical abnormalities (most often), or frank hepatic with long-term immunosuppression is significant and rejec- dysfunction.
2Therefore, it is important to distinguish be- tion remains a persistent, but usually manageable, problem. tween ``biological'' and ``clinically relevant'' rejection. The lat- Clinical research to improve patient survival and lessen mor- ter may require additional immunosuppressive treatment, bidity is, therefore, inherent to the clinical practice of hepatic although the distinction is not always achievable and treat- transplantation. Because patient follow-up and successful ment philosophies differ at various centers. This is particu- application of developments could be simplified by a common larly true for hepatic allografts, which are widely acknowl- scale of recognizing, naming, and grading the severity of edged to be unique. They are more resistant than others to acute liver allograft rejection, members of an international humoral rejection, and are accepted without immunosuppres- consensus panel recently agreed upon a common nomencla- sive therapy in some small and large experimental animal ture and set of definitions.
2The group next agreed to create species. Of potential importance for human transplantationis the observation that in all animals in which a liver allograft
is eventually accepted without drugs, the allograft undergoes
Abbreviations: RFH, Royal Free Hospital; RAI, rejection activity index.a transient acute rejection crisis.6-9Thus, it should be under-From the Department of PathologyÐDivision of Transplantation, University of Pitts-stood that the histopathological diagnosis of acute rejectionburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA.Received February 9, 1996; accepted October 17, 1996.may not automatically signal that treatment is indicated,
Address reprint requests to A. J. Demetris, M.D., Director, Division of Transplant Pa- particularly if it is low grade. Adoption of a standardized
thology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, E1548 Biomedical Science Tower, Pitts-histopathological grading system possibly could help deter-burgh, PA 15261.mine if, and at what point, the histopathological severity ofCopyrightq1997 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.0270-9139/97/2503-0028$3.00/0rejection can predict the need for, and success of antirejection
658
AID Hepa 0012 / 5p1d$$$221 02-07-97 18:01:42 hpta WBS: Hepatology